where i had been what sort of a country
it was
and how i liked it i praised it much the
happy life i led in it
expressing strongly my intention of
returning to it
and one of them asked what kind of money
we had there
i produced a handful of silver and
spread it before them
which was a kind of rari show a peep
show in a box
they had not been used to paper money
being the money of boston
began footnote there were no mints in
the colonies so the metal money was
of foreign coinage and not nearly so
common as paper money
which was printed in large quantities in
america even in small denominations
and footnote then i took the opportunity
of letting them see my watch
and lastly my brother still grum and
sullen i gave them a piece of eight
spanish dollar about equivalent to our
dollar
to drink and took my leave this visit of
mine
offended him extremely for when my
mother sometime after spoke to him of a
reconciliation
and of her wishes to see us on good
terms together
and that we might live for the future as
brothers he said i had insulted him in
such
a manner before his people that he could
never forget
or forgive it in this however he was
mistaken
my father received the governor's letter
with some apparent surprise
but said little of it to me for some
days when captain holmes returned
he showed it to him and asked him if he
knew keith and what kind of man he was
adding his opinion that he must be of
small discretion to think of setting a
boy up in a business
who wanted yet three years of being a
man's estate
holmes said what he could in favor of
the project
but my father was clear in the
impropriety of it and at last
gave a flat denial to it then he wrote a
civil letter to sir william
thanking him for the patronage he had so
kindly offered me
but declining to assist me as yet in
setting up
i being in his opinion too young to be
trusted with the management of a
business so important
and for which the preparation must be so
expensive
my friend and companion collins who was
a clerk in the post office
pleased with the account i gave him of
my new country
determined to go through there also and
while i waited for my father's
determination
he set out before me by land to rhode
island
leaving his books which were a pretty
collection of mathematics
and natural philosophy to come with mine
and me to new york where he proposed to
wait for me
my father though he did not approve sir
williams proposition was yet pleased
that i had been able to obtain so
advantageous a character from a person
of such note where i had resided and
that i had been so industrious and
careful
as to equip myself so handsomely in so
short a time
therefore seeing no prospect of an
accommodation between
my brother and me he gave his consent to
my returning again to philadelphia
advised me to behave respectfully to the
people there
endeavoring to obtain the general esteem
and avoid lampooning and libeling
to which he thought i had too much
inclination
telling me that by steady industry and a
prudent parsimony
i might save enough by the time i was 21
to set me up and that if i came near the
matter
he would help me out with the rest this
was all i could obtain
except some small gifts as tokens of his
and my mother's love
when i embarked again for new york now
with their approbation
and their blessing the sloop putting in
at newport rhode island
i visited my brother john who had been
married and settled there some years
he received me very affectionately for
he always loved me
a friend of his won vernon having some
money do him in philadelphia
about 35 pounds currency desired that i
would receive it for him
and keep it till i had his directions
what to remit it
in accordingly he gave me an order this
afterwards occasioned me a good deal of
uneasiness
at newport we took a number of
passengers for new york among which were
two young women
companions and a grave sensible
matron-like quaker woman
with her attendance i had shown an
obliging readiness to do her some little
services
which impressed her i suppose with a
degree of goodwill toward me
therefore when she saw a daily growing
familiarity between me
and the two young women which they
appeared to encourage
she took me aside and said young man i
am concerned for thee
as thou hast no friend in thee and seems
not
to know much of the world or of the
snares
youth is exposed to depend upon it those
are very bad women
i can see it in all their actions and if
they art not
upon thy guard they will draw thee into
some danger
they are strangers to thee and i advise
thee in a friendly concern for thy
welfare
to have no acquaintance with them as i
seemed
at first not to think so ill of them as
she did
she mentioned some things she had
observed and
heard that had escaped my notice but now
convinced me
she was right i thanked her for her kind
advice
and promised to follow it when we
arrived at new york they told me where
they lived
and invited me to come and see them but
i avoided it and it was well i did
for the next day the captain missed a
silver spoon and some other
things that had been taken out of his
cabin and knowing that these
were a couple of trumpets he got a
warrant to search their lodgings
found the stolen goods and had the
thieves punished
so though we had escaped a sunken rock
which we scraped upon in the passage i
thought this
escapade of rather more importance to me
at new york i found my friend collins
who had arrived there some time before
me
we had been intimate from children and
had read the same books together
but he had the advantage of more time
for reading and studying
and a wonderful genius for mathematical
learning in which he far outstripped me
while i lived in boston most of my hours
of leisure for conversation
were spent with him and he continued as
sober as well as an industrious lad
was much respected for his learning by
several of the clergy and other
gentlemen
and seemed to promise making a good
figure in life
but during my absence he had acquired a
habit of sotting with brandy
and i found by his own account and what
i heard from others
that he had been drunk every day since
his arrival in new york
and behaved very oddly he had gamed to
and lost his money so that i was obliged
to discharge his lodgings
and defray his expenses to and at
philadelphia
which proved extremely inconvenient to
me
the governor of new york burnett son of
bishop burnett
hearing from the captain that a young
man one of his passengers
had a great many books desired he would
bring me to see him
i waited upon him accordingly and should
have taken collins with me
but that he was not sober the governor
treated me
with great civility showed me his
library which was a very large one
and we had a good deal of conversation
about books and authors
this was the second governor who had
done me the honor to take notice of me
which to a poor boy like me was very
pleasing
we proceeded to philadelphia i received
on the way vernon's money
without which we could hardly have
finished our journey
collins wished to be employed in some
counting house
but whether they discovered his dramming
by his breath
or by his behavior though he had some
recommendations
he met with no success in any
application and continued lodging and
boarding
at the same house with me and at my
expense
knowing i had that money of vernon's he
was continually borrowing of me
still promising repayment as soon as he
should be in business
at length he had got so much of it that
i was distressed to think
what i should do in case of being called
on to remitted
his drinking continued about which we
sometimes quarreled for when a little
intoxicated
he was very fractious once in a boat on
the delaware with some other young men
he refused to row in his turn i will be
rode home says he
we will not roll for you says i you must
or stay all night on the water says he
just as you please
the others said let us row what
signifies it
but my mind being soured with his other
conduct
i continued to refuse so he swore he
would make me row
and throw me overboard and coming along
stepping on the thoughts towards me
when he came up and struck at me i
clapped my hand under his crutch
and rising pitched him head foremost
into the river
i knew he was a good swimmer and so was
under little concern about him
but before he could get round to lay
hold of the boat
we had a few strokes pulled her out of
his reach
and ever when he drew near the boat we
asked if he would row
striking a few strokes to slide her away
from him
he was ready to die with vexation and
obstinately would not promise to row
however seeing him at last beginning to
tire we lifted him and brought him home
dripping wet in the evening we hardly
exchanged the civil war
afterward and a west indian captain who
had a commission to procure a tutor for
the sons of a gentleman
at barbados happening to meet with him
agreed to carry him thither
he left me then promising to remit the
first money he should receive
in order to discharge the debt but i
never heard of him after
breaking into this money of vernon's was
one of the first great
errata of my life and this affair showed
that my father was not much out
in his judgment when he supposed me too
young to manage business of importance
but sir william on reading his letter
said he was too prudent
there was great difference in persons
and discretion did not always
accompany years nor was youth always
without it
and since he will not set you up says he
i will do it myself give me an inventory
of the things necessary to be had from
england
and i will send for them you shall repay
me when you are able
i am resolved to have a good printer
here and i
am sure you must succeed this was spoken
with such an appearance of cordiality
that i had not the least doubt of his
meaning and what he said
i had hitherto kept the proposition of
my setting up
a secret in philadelphia and i still
kept it
had it been known that i depended on the
governor
probably some friend that knew him
better would have advised me not to rely
on him
as i afterwards heard it was his known
character to be liberal of promises
which he never meant to keep yet
unsolicited
as he was by me how could i think his
generous offer
insincere i believed him one of the best
men of the world
i presented him an inventory of a little
print house
amounting to my computing to about 100
pounds sterling
he liked it but asked me if my being on
the spot in england
to choose the types and see that
everything was good of the kind
might not be of some advantage then says
he
when there you may make acquaintances
and establish correspondence in the book
selling in stationary way
i agreed that this might be advantageous
then says he
get yourself ready to go with anis which
was the annual ship
and the only one at that time usually
passing between london and philadelphia
but it would be some months before annis
sailed
so i continued working with kymer
fretting about the money collins
had got from me and in daily
apprehension of being called upon by
vernon
which however did not happen for some
years after
i believe i have omitted mentioning that
in my first voyage from boston being be
calmed off block island
our people set about catching cod and
hauled up a great many
hitherto i had stuck to my resolution of
not eating animal food
and on this occasion i considered it
with my master
tyrone the taking every fish as a kind
of
unprovoked murder since none of them had
or
ever could do us any injury that might
justify the slaughter
all this seemed to be reasonable but i
had formerly been
a great lover of fish and when this came
hot out of the frying pan it smelled
admirably well
i balanced some time between principle
and inclination
till i reckon that when the fish were
opened i saw smaller fish
taken out of their stomachs then thought
i
if you eat one another i don't see why
we may not eat you
so i dined upon cod very heartily and
continued to eat with other people
returning now only and then occasionally
to a vegetable diet so convenient a
thing is it to be a
reasonable creature since it enables one
to find
or make a reason for everything one has
a mind to do end of chapter four
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter five
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit
librivox.org the autobiography of
benjamin franklin edited by frank
woodworth pine chapter 5
early friends in philadelphia
kymer and i lived on a pretty good
familiar footing
and agreed tolerably well for he
suspected nothing of my setting up
he retained a great deal of his old
enthusiasms and loved argumentation
we therefore had many disputations i
used to work him
so with my socratic method and i had
treppened him so often by questions
apparently
so distant from any point he had in hand
and yet by degrees
led to the point and brought him into
difficulties and
contradictions that at last he grew
ridiculously cautious
and would hardly answer me the most
common question
without asking first what do you intend
to make from that
however it gave him so high an opinion
of my abilities
in the computing way that he seriously
proposed my being his colleague
in the project he had of setting up a
new sect
he was to preach the doctrines and i was
to confound all opponents
when he came to explain with me upon the
doctrines
i found several conundrums which i
objected to
unless i might have my way a little too
and introduce some of mine
kymer wore his beard at full length
because somewhere in the mosaic
law it is said thou shalt not mar the
corners of thy beard
he likewise kept the seventh-day sabbath
and these two points were essential to
him
i disliked both but agreed to admit them
upon condition of his adopting the
doctrine
of using no animal food i doubt said he
my constitution will not bear that i
assured him it would
and that he would be better for it he
was usually a great glutton
and i promised myself some diversion in
half starving him
he agreed to try the practice if i would
keep him company
i did so and we held it for three months
we had
our victuals dressed and brought to us
regularly by a woman in the neighborhood
who had from me a list of 40 dishes
to be prepared for us at different times
in all which
there were neither fish flesh nor foul
the whim suited me the better at this
time
from the cheapness of it not costing us
above 18 pence sterling each week
i have since kept several lengths most
strictly
leaving the common diet for that and
that for the common
abruptly without the least inconvenience
so that i think there is a little in the
advice of making those changes by easy
gradations
i went on pleasantly but poor keemer
suffered grievously tired of the project
longed for the flesh pots of egypt and
ordered a roast pig
he invited me and two women friends to
dine with him
but it being brought too soon upon table
he could not resist the temptation and
ate the hole before we came
i made some courtship during this time
to misread
i had a great respect and affection for
her and had some
reason to believe she had the same for
me but
as i was about to take a long voyage and
we were both very young
only a little above 18 it was thought
most prudent
by her mother to prevent our going too
far at present
as a marriage if it was to take place
would be more convenient after my return
when i should be as i expected set up in
my business
perhaps too she thought my expectations
not so well founded
as i imagined them to be my chief
acquaintances
at this time were charles osborne joseph
watson
and james ralph all lovers of reading
the two first were clerks in an imminent
scrivener or
conveyancer in the town charles brockton
the other was clerked to a merchant
watson
was a pious sensible young man of great
integrity
the others rather more lacks in their
principles of religion
particularly ralph who as well as
collins
had been unsettled by me for which they
both made me suffer
osborne was sensible candid frank
sincere
and affectionate to his friends but in
literary matters
too fond of criticizing ralph was
ingenious
genteel in his manners and extremely
eloquent
i think i never knew a prettier talker
both of them were great admirers of
poetry
and began to try their hands in little
pieces
many pleasant walks we four had together
on sundays
into the woods near shukil where we read
to one another and conferred on what we
read
ralph was inclined to pursue the study
of poetry not doubting
but he might become imminent in it and
make his fortune by it
alleging that the best poets must when
they first begin to write
make as many faults as he did osborne
dissuaded him
assured him he had no genius for poetry
and advised him to think of nothing
beyond the business
he was bred to that in the mercantile
way
though he had no stock he might by his
diligence and punctuality
recommend himself to employment as a
factor and in time acquire
wherewith to trade on his own account
i approved the amusing one's self with
poetry
now and then so far as to improve one's
language
but no farther on this it was proposed
that we should each of us
at our next meeting produce a piece of
our own composing
in order to improve by our mutual
observations
criticisms and corrections as language
and
expression were what we had in view we
excluded all considerations of invention
by agreeing that the task
should be a version of the 18th psalm
which describes the descent of a deity
when the time of our meeting drew nigh
ralph called on me first
and let me know his piece was ready i
told him i had been busy
and having little inclination had done
nothing
he then showed me his peace for my
opinion and i much approved it
as it appeared to me to have great merit
now says he osborne never will allow the
least merit in anything of mine
but makes one thousand criticisms out of
mere envy
he is not so jealous of you i wish
therefore you would take this piece and
produce it as yours
i will pretend not to have had time and
so produce nothing
we shall then see what he will say to it
it was agreed and i immediately
transcribed it
that it might appear to be in my own
hand we met
watson's performance was red there was
some beauties in it
but many defects osborne's was read
it was much better ralph did it justice
remarked some faults but applauded the
beauties he himself had nothing to
produce
i was backward seemed desirous of being
excused
and had not sufficient time to correct
etc
but no excuse could be admitted produce
i must
i was read and repeated watson and
osborne gave up the contest
and joined in applauding it ralph only
made some criticism
and proposed some amendments but i
defended my text
osborne was against ralph and told him
he was no better a critic than poet
so he dropped the argument as they too
went
home together osborne expressed himself
still more strongly
in favor of what he thought my
production
having restrained himself before as he
said
least i should think it flattery but who
would have
imagined said he that franklin had been
capable
of such a performance such panting
such force such fire he has even
improved the original
in his common conversation he seems to
have no choice of words
he hesitates and blunders and yet good
god
how he writes when we next met ralph
discovered the trick we had played
on him and osborne was a little laughed
at
this transaction fixed ralph in his
resolution of becoming a poet
i did all that i could to dissuade him
from it but he continued scribbling
verses till
pope cured him again footnote in one of
the later editions of the duncan aide
occur the following lines silence e
were ralphed to cynthia howells and
makes knight hideous
answer him ye owls to this the poet adds
the following note
james ralph a name inserted after the
first editions
not known until he writ a swearing piece
called sweeney very abusive of dr swift
mr gay and myself and
footnote he became however a pretty good
prose writer
more of him hereafter but as i may not
have
occasioned again to mention the other
two
i shall just remark here that watson
died in my arms a few years after
much lamented the being of the best of
our set osborne went to the west indies
where he became an imminent lawyer and
made money but died young
he and i made a serious agreement that
the one who happened first to die
should if possible make a friendly visit
to the other and acquaint him of how he
found things in
that separate state but he never
fulfilled his promise
end of chapter five
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter six
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit
librivox.org the autobiography of
benjamin franklin
chapter 6 the first visit to london
the governor seeming to like my company
had me frequently to his house
and his setting me up always mentioned
as a fixed thing
i was to take with me letters
recommendary
to a number of his friends besides the
letter of credit
to furnish me with the necessary money
for purchasing the present types
paper etc for these letters i was
appointed to call at different times
when they were to be ready but a future
time was still named
thus we went on till the ship whose
departure two had been several times
postponed
was on the point of sailing then when i
called
to take my leave and received the
letters his secretary
dr bard came out to me and said the
governor was extremely busy
in writing but would be down at
newcastle
before the ship and there the letters
would be delivered to me
ralph though married and having one
child had determined to accompany
me in this voyage it was thought he
intended to establish a correspondence
and obtain goods to sell on commission
but i found afterward that
through some discontent with his wife's
relations
he proposed to leave her on their hands
and never return again
having taken leave of my friends and
interchanged
some promises with miss reed i left
philadelphia in the ship
which anchored at newcastle the governor
was there
but when i went to his lodgings the
secretary came to me from him
with the civilist message in the world
that he could not
then see me being engaged in business of
the utmost
importance but should send the letters
to me on board and wished me heartily
a good voyage and a speedy return etc
i returned on board a little puzzled but
still not
doubting mr andrew hamilton a famous
lawyer of philadelphia
had taken passage in the same ship for
himself
and son and with mr denham a quaker
merchant
and may shores orion and russell masters
of an ironwork in maryland
had engaged the great cabin so that
ralph and i were forced to take up with
a birth
in the steerage and none on board
knowing us
were considered as ordinary persons but
mr hamilton and his son
it was james since governor returned
from newcastle to philadelphia
the father being recalled by a great fee
to plead for a seized
ship and just before we sailed colonel
french
coming on board and showing me great
respect
i was more taken notice of and with my
friend ralph
invited by other gentlemen to come into
the cabin
there being now room accordingly
we removed thither understanding that
colonel french had brought on board the
governor's dispatches
i asked the captain for those letters
that were to be
under my care he said all were put in
the bag together
and he could not then come at them but
before we landed in england i should
have an opportunity
of picking them out so i was satisfied
for the present
and we proceeded on our voyage we had a
sociable company
in the cabin and lived uncommonly well
having the addition of all mr hamilton's
stores
who had laid in plentifully in this
passage mr denham
contracted a friendship for me that
continued during his life
the voyage was otherwise not a pleasant
one as we had a great deal of bad
weather
when we came to the channel the captain
kept his word with me
and gave me an opportunity of examining
the bag
for the governor's letters i found none
upon which my name was put as under my
care
i picked out six or seven that by the
handwriting i thought might be the
promised letters
especially as one of them was directed
to basket the king's printer
and another to some stationer we arrived
in london the 24th of december 1724
i waited upon the stationer who came
first in my way
delivering the letter as from governor
keith i don't know such a person says he
but opening the letter o this is from
riddlesunden i have lately found him to
be a complete rascal
and i will have nothing to do with him
nor receive any letters from him
so putting the letter into my hands he
turned on his heel and left me
to serve some customer i was surprised
to find that these were not the
governor's letters
and after recollecting and comparing
circumstances
i began to doubt his sincerity i found
my friend denim
and opened the whole affair to him he
let me into keith's character
told me there was not in the least
probability
that he had written any letters for me
that no one who knew him
had the smallest dependence on him and
he laughed at the notion of the
governor's giving me a letter of credit
having he said no credit to give on my
expressing some concern
about what i should do he advised me to
endeavor getting some employment in the
way of my business
among the printers here said he you will
improve yourself
and when you return to america you will
set up to
greater advantage we both of us happen
to know as well as the stationer
that riddelson then the attorney was a
very naive
he had half ruined miss reed's father by
persuading him
to be bound for him by this letter
it appeared there was a secret scheme on
foot
to the prejudice of hamilton supposed to
be then
coming over with us and that keith was
concerned
in it with riddles and then denim who
was a friend of hamilton's
thought he ought to be acquainted with
it so
when he arrived in england which was
soon after
partly from resentment and ill will to
keith and
riddles and den and partly from good
will to him
i waited on him and gave him the letter
he thanked me cordially
the information being of importance to
him and from that time he became my
friend
greatly to my advantage afterwards on
many occasions
but what shall we think of a governor's
playing such pitiful tricks
and imposing so grossly on a poor
ignorant boy
it was a habit he had acquired he wished
to please
everybody and having little to give he
gave
expectations he was otherwise an
ingenious
sensible man a pretty good writer and a
good governor for the people
though not for his constituents the
proprieties
whose instructions he sometimes
disregarded
several of our best laws were of his
planning and passed
during his administration ralph and i
were inseparable companions
we took lodgings together in little
britain at three shillings and sixpence
a week
as much as we could then afford he found
some relations
but they were poor and unable to assist
him
he now let me know his intentions of
remaining in london
and that he never meant to return to
philadelphia he had brought no money
with him
the whole he could muster having been
expended paying his passage
i had 15 pistols so he borrowed
occasionally of me
to subsist while he was looking out for
business
he first endeavored to get into the
playhouse
believing himself qualified for an actor
but wilkes to whom he applied advised
him candidly
not to think of that employment as it
was impossible he should succeed in it
then he proposed to roberts a publisher
in paternoster row to write for him a
weekly paper
like the spectator on certain conditions
which roberts did not approve then he
endeavored to get employment as a
hackney writer
to copy for the stationers and lawyers
about the temple
but could find no vacancy i immediately
got into work at palmer's then a famous
printing house
in bartholomew close and there i
continued near a year
i was pretty diligent but spent with
ralph a good deal of my earnings in
going to plays
and other places of amusement we had
together consumed all of my pistols
and now just rubbed on from hand to
mouth
he seemed quite to forget his wife and
child and i by degrees
my engagements with miss reed to whom i
never wrote more than one letter
and that was to let her know i was not
likely
soon to return that was another of the
great errata of my life
which i should wish to correct if i were
to live it over again
in fact by our expenses i was constantly
kept unable to pay my passage
at palmer's i was employed in composing
for the second edition
of wollaston's religion of nature some
of his reasonings not appearing
to me well founded i wrote a little
metaphysical piece in which i made
remarks on them
it was entitled a dissension on liberty
and necessity
pleasure and pain i inscribed it to my
friend ralph
i printed a small number it occasioned
my being more considered by mr palmer
as a young man of some ingenuity though
he seriously
expostulated with me upon the principles
of my pamphlet
which to him appeared abominable my
printing
this pamphlet was another erratum
while i lodged in little britain i made
an acquaintance with one wilcox a
bookseller
whose shop was at the next door he had
an immense collection of second-hand
books
circulating libraries were not then in
use but we agreed that
on certain reasonable terms which i have
now forgotten
i might take read and return any of his
books
this i esteemed a great advantage and i
made as much use of it as i could
my pamphlet by some means falling into
the hands of one lions
a surgeon author of a book entitled
the infallibility of human judgment it
occasioned an acquaintance between
us he took great notice of me called on
me often to converse on those subjects
carried me to the house a pale ale house
in
elaine cheapside and introduced me
to mr manderville author of the
fable of the bees who had clubbed there
of which he was the soul being a most
facetious man entertaining companion
lions too introduced me to dr pemberton
at bastian's coffee house who promised
to give me an opportunity
sometime or other of seeing sir isaac
newton
of which i was extremely desirous but
this never happened
i had brought over a few curiosities
among which the principal
was a purse made of the asbestos which
purifies
by fire sir han sloan heard of it
came to see me and invited me to his
house in bloomsbury square
where he showed me all his curiosities
and persuaded me to let him add that to
the number
for which he paid me handsomely in our
house there lodged a young woman
a milner who i think had a shop
in the cloisters she had been gentilly
bred
was sensible and lively and of most
pleasing
conversation ralph read plays to her in
the evenings they grew intimate
she took another lodging and he followed
her
they lived together for some time but he
being still
out of business and her income not
sufficient to maintain them
with her child he took a resolution of
going from london
to try for a country school which he
thought himself well qualified to
undertake
as he wrote an excellent hand and was a
master of arithmetic and accounts
this however he deemed a business below
him
and confident of future better fortune
when he should be unwilling to have it
known
that he was once so meanly employed he
changed his name
and did me the honor to assume mine
for i soon after had a letter from him
acquainting me
that he was settled in a small village
in berkshire i think it was
where he taught reading and writing to
ten or a dozen boys
at sixpence per week recommending mrs t
to my care and desiring me to write to
him
directing for mr franklin schoolmaster
at such a place he continued to write
frequently
sending me large specimens of an epic
poem which he was then composing
and desiring my remarks and corrections
these i gave him from time to time
but endeavored rather to discourage his
proceeding
one of young's satires was just then
published
i copied and sent him a great part of it
which set in a strong light the folly of
pursuing
muses with any hope of advancement by
them
all this was in vain sheets of the poem
continued to come by every post
in the meantime mrs t having on his
account lost her friends in business
was often in distress and used to send
for me
and borrow what i could spare to help
her out of them
i grew fond of her company and being at
that time under no religious restraint
and presuming upon my importance to her
i attempted familiarities
another aratum which she repulsed with a
proper resentment
and acquainted him with my behavior this
made a breach between
us and when he returned again to london
he let me know he thought i had
cancelled all the obligations
he had been under to me so i found i was
never to expect his repaying me what i
lent to him
or advanced to him this however was not
then of much consequence
as he was totally unable and in the loss
of his friendship i found myself
relieved from a burden i now began to
think of getting a little money
beforehand
and expecting better work i left palmers
to work at watts
near lincoln's infields a still greater
printing house
here i continued all the rest of my stay
in london
at my first admission into this printing
house i took to working at press
imagining i felt a want of the bodily
exercise
i had been used to in america where
press work is mixed with composing
i drank only water and the other workmen
near 50 in number
were great guzzlers of beer on occasion
i carried up and down the stairs a large
form of types
in each hand when others carried but one
in both hands
they wondered to see from this and
several instances
what the water american as they called
me
was stronger than themselves who drank
strong
beer we had an ale house boy who
attended always in the house
to supply the workmen my companion at
the press drank every day a pint before
breakfast
a pint at breakfast with his bread and
cheese a pint between breakfast and
dinner
a pint at dinner a pint in the afternoon
about six o'clock
and another when he had done his day's
work i thought it a detestable custom
but it was necessary he supposed to
drink strong beer
that he might be strong to labor i
endeavored to convince him that the
bodily strength afforded by beer
could only be in proportion to the grain
or flower in the barley dissolved in the
water of which it was made
that there was more flour in a penny
worth of bread
and therefore if he would eat that with
a pint of water
it would give him more strength than a
quart of beer
he drank on however and had four or five
shillings to pay out of his wages every
saturday night
for that muddling liquor and expense i
was free from
and thus these poor devils kept
themselves always
under watts after some weeks desiring to
have me
in the composing room i left the
pressman
a new bienvenue or some for drink
being five shillings was demanded of me
by the compositors
i thought it an imposition as i had paid
below
the master thought it too and forbade my
paying
it i stood about two or three weeks was
accordingly considered as an
excommunicate
and had so many little pieces of private
mischief done
me by mixing my sorts transposing my
pages
breaking my matter etc etc if i were
ever so little out of the room
and all ascribed to the chapel ghost
which they said
ever haunted those not regularly
admitted
that notwithstanding the master's
protection i found myself obliged
to comply and pay the money convinced of
the folly of being on ill terms
with those one is to live with
continually
begin footnote franklin now left the
work of operating the printing presses
which was largely a matter of manual
labor and began setting type
which required more skill and
intelligence and
footnote i was now on a fair footing
with them
and soon acquired considerable influence
i proposed some reasonable alterations
in their chapel laws
and carried them against all opposition
from my example a great part of them
left their middling breakfast of beer
and bread and
cheese finding they could with me be
supplied from
a neighboring house with a large
porridge of
hot water gruel sprinkled with pepper
crumbed with bread
and a bit of butter in it for the price
of a pint of beer
these three happens this was a more
comfortable
as well as cheaper breakfast and keep
their heads clearer
those who continued sotting with beer
all day were often
by not paying out of credit at the ale
house
and used to make interest with me to get
beer
their light as they phased it being out
i watched the pay table on saturday
night and collected what i stood engaged
for them
having to pay sometimes near 30
shillings a week on their accounts
thus and my being esteemed a pretty good
right
that is a jocular verbal satirist
supported my consequence in the society
my constant attendance i never making a
saint monday recommended me to the
master and
my uncommon quickness at composing
occasion to my being put upon all work
of dispatch which was generally better
paid
so i went now very agreeably begin
footnote a printing house is called a
chapel
because caxton the first english printer
did his printing in a chapel connected
with westminster abbey
saint monday is a holy day taken to
prolong the dissipation
of saturday's wages in the footnotes
by lodging in little britain being too
remote i found another in duke street
opposite the roman chapel
it was two pair of stairs backwards at
an italian
warehouse a widow lady kept the house
she had a daughter
and a maidservant and a journeyman who
attended the warehouse but lodged abroad
after sending to inquire my character at
the house where i had last
lodged she agreed to take me at the same
rate
three shilling sixpence per week cheaper
as she said from the protection she
expected
in having a man lodge in the house she
was a widow
an elderly woman and had been bred a
protestant being a clergyman's daughter
but was converted to the catholic
religion by her husband
whose memory she much revered had lived
much
among people of distinction and knew a
thousand anecdotes
of them as far back as the times of
charles ii
she was lame in her knees with the gout
and therefore seldom
stirred out of her room so sometimes
wanted company
and hers was so highly amusing to me
that i was sure to spend an evening with
her
whenever she desired it our supper was
only half an anchovy each
on a very little strip of bread and
butter and half a pint of ale between us
but the entertainment was in her
conversation my always keeping good
hours and giving little trouble in the
family
made her unwilling to part with me so
that when i talked of a lodging i had
heard of
nearer my business for two shillings a
week which meant i was not